README.md, before:

# Spring Data JPA CRUD with Vaadin

A super simple single table CRUD example with [Spring Data JPA](http://projects.spring.io/spring-data-jpa/) and [Vaadin](https://vaadin.com). Uses [Spring Boot](http://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/) for easy project setup and development. Helps you to get started with basic JPA backed applications and [Vaadin Spring Boot](https://vaadin.com/addon/vaadin-spring-boot) integration library.

For larger applications, consider applying some commonly known design patterns for your UI code. Check e.g. [this MVP example](https://github.com/peholmst/vaadin4spring/tree/master/spring-vaadin-mvp).

As an example for a really easy Vaadin add-on usage, there is Switch add-on added as a dependency and the application uses [wscdn.vaadin.com](https://wscdn.vaadin.com) service to compile and host the widgetset. To make it work in your project, see [this part in pom.xml](https://github.com/mstahv/spring-data-vaadin-crud/blob/master/pom.xml#L100-L112) and [this row](https://github.com/mstahv/spring-data-vaadin-crud/blob/master/src/main/java/crud/Application.java#L11) in your configuration.

## How to play with this example

### Suggested method

* Clone the project
* Import to your favorite IDE
* Execute the main method from Application class

### Just execute it with maven

```
git clone https://github.com/mstahv/spring-data-vaadin-crud.git
cd spring-data-vaadin-crud
mvn spring-boot:run
```

### Just create the package and run it

The built .jar file is auto-runnable, so as you can move it to any computer having java installed and run the app. 

```
git clone https://github.com/mstahv/spring-data-vaadin-crud.git
cd spring-data-vaadin-crud
mvn package
java -jar target/spring-data-vaadin-crud-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

### Just deploy it

The built jar file is really simple to deploy in modern PaaS services. E.g. if you have existing Bluemix account and are already logged in with your cf (CLI) tools just execute following:

```
git clone https://github.com/mstahv/spring-data-vaadin-crud.git
cd spring-data-vaadin-crud
mvn install
cf push choose-namefor-your-server-here -p target/*.jar -b https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack.git

```

Note, that you can also use the cf push without the java-buildpack, but then you need to downgrade the example to Java 7. Check out the custom "java7" branch for that.

Commit message:

Improved README
Now mentions NodeJS requirement and isntructs to use prod profile for production jar files

README.md, after:

# Spring Data JPA CRUD with Vaadin

A super simple single table CRUD example with [Spring Data JPA](http://projects.spring.io/spring-data-jpa/) and [Vaadin](https://vaadin.com). Uses [Spring Boot](http://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/) for easy project setup and development. Helps you to get started with basic JPA backed applications and [Vaadin Spring Boot](https://vaadin.com/addon/vaadin-spring-boot) integration library.

For larger applications, consider applying some commonly known design patterns for your UI code. Check e.g. [this MVP example](https://github.com/peholmst/vaadin4spring/tree/master/spring-vaadin-mvp).

As an example for a really easy Vaadin add-on usage, there is Switch add-on added as a dependency and the application uses [wscdn.vaadin.com](https://wscdn.vaadin.com) service to compile and host the widgetset. To make it work in your project, see [this part in pom.xml](https://github.com/mstahv/spring-data-vaadin-crud/blob/master/pom.xml#L100-L112) and [this row](https://github.com/mstahv/spring-data-vaadin-crud/blob/master/src/main/java/crud/Application.java#L11) in your configuration.

## How to play with this example


### Pre-requirements

* JDK 8 or later
* NodeJS 10.x or later is also needed by Vaadin to generate the front-end resource bundle. You can install NodeJS locally to your current project using Maven command: mvn com.github.eirslett:frontend-maven-plugin:1.7.6:install-node-and-npm -DnodeVersion="v10.16.3"

### Suggested method

* Clone the project
* Import to your favorite IDE
* Execute the main method from Application class

### Just execute it with maven

```
git clone https://github.com/mstahv/spring-data-vaadin-crud.git
cd spring-data-vaadin-crud
mvn spring-boot:run
```

### Just create the package and run it

The built .jar file is auto-runnable, so as you can move it to any computer having java installed and run the app. 

```
git clone https://github.com/mstahv/spring-data-vaadin-crud.git
cd spring-data-vaadin-crud
mvn package
java -jar target/spring-data-vaadin-crud-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

### Just deploy it

For production ready package, `prod` Maven profile should be used. In this profile
the front-end bundle is pre-built so that NodeJS is not needed for the server and
server startup is faster.

The built jar file is really simple to deploy in modern PaaS services. E.g. if you have existing Bluemix account and are already logged in with your cf (CLI) tools just execute following:

```
git clone https://github.com/mstahv/spring-data-vaadin-crud.git
cd spring-data-vaadin-crud
mvn install -Pprod
cf push choose-namefor-your-server-here -p target/*.jar -b https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack.git

```

Note, that you can also use the cf push without the java-buildpack, but then you need to downgrade the example to Java 7. Check out the custom "java7" branch for that.
